# CNCI_PLEK
Install CNCI_PLEK
At the first time to running CNCI and PLEK, we suggest you to install "libsvm-3.0" that stored in our package.

git clone https://github.com/leiming8886/CNCI_PLEK/
cd CNCI_PLEK
source setup.sh


HELP for CNCI_PLEK subroutines
PLEK_CNCI.py: an integration classification tool of CNCI and PLEK for identify coding or non-coding transcripts (fasta file and gtf file)

Usage: PLEK_CNCI.py [-h] -f input_gtf -p parallel -g -d ref_2bit

Parameters:

-f or --file : input files of fasta file or gtf file

-p or --parallel : assign the running CUP numbers

-g or --gtf : if you input file is gtf format please use this parameter

-d or --directory : if you use the -g  this parameter must be assigned, within this parameter please assign the path of your reference genome.




filter_novel_lincRNA.py: A tool that can convert the index file which produced by python CNCI_package/CNCI.py to four gene classes (novel_lincRNA,novel_coding, ambiguous_genes and filter_out_noncoding)

Usage: filter_novel_lincRNA.py [-h] [-s 0] [-l 200] [-e 2] -i cnci_index -g unannotated_gtf -o out_dir

Parameters:

-h, --help show this help message and exit

-i INDEX, --index=INDEX

(Required.) The path of coding/noncoding index file. This file is the output file of CNCI.py.

-g GTF, --gtf=GTF

(Required.) The path of potentially_novel gtf file. This file could be generated by compare.py.

-s SCORE, --score=SCORE

(Optional.) Threoshold of CNCI score. RNAs with score less than SCORE will be classified as noncoding. The Default is 0 .

-l LENGTH, --length=LENGTH

(Optional.) Minimal length of lincRNA. lincRNA with length >= LENGTH will be kept. The Default is 200.

-e EXON_NUM, --exon_num=EXON_NUM

(Optional.) Minimal exon number of lincRNA. lincRNA with exon number >= EXON_NUM will be kept. The Default is 2.

-o OUT_DIR, --out_dir=OUT_DIR

(Requried.) Output directory of the results.

EXAMPLE
you can use CNCI subroutines like our example:

python CNCI_package/CNCI.py -f unannotation.gtf -g -o test -m ve -p 8 -d hg19.2bit

python filter_novel_lincRNA.py -i test.index -g unannotation.gtf -s 0 -l 200 -e exon_num -o out_dir 

python extract.py -i novel-noncoding.gtf,nov.gtf -n known-non-coding.gtf -c known-coding.gtf
